now that your minds are open I would
like to tell you my goal for this talk
which is to change your perspective on
many things how about this for one this
man is wearing what we call a bee beard
a beard full of bees now this is what
many of you might picture when you think
about honeybees maybe insects or maybe
anything that has more legs than two and
let me start by telling you I got you I
understand that but there are many
things to know and I want you to open
your minds here keep them open and
change a perspective about honeybees
notice that this man is not getting
stung he probably has a queen bee tied
to his chin and the other bees are
attracted to it so this really
demonstrates our relationship with
honeybees and that goes deep back for
thousands of years we're very co-evolved
because we depend on bees for
pollination and even more recently as an
economic commodity many of you may have
heard that honeybees are disappearing
not just dying but they're gone we don't
even find dead bodies this is called
colony collapse disorder and it's
bizarre researchers around the globe
still do not know what's causing it but
what we do know is that with the
declining numbers of bees the costs of
over 130 fruit and vegetable crops that
we rely on for food is going up in price
so honeybees are important for their
role in the economy as well as in
agriculture here you can see some
pictures of what are called green roofs
or urban agriculture we're familiar with
the image on the left that shows a local
neighborhood garden in the south end
that's where I call home have a beehive
in the backyard and perhaps a green roof
in the future when we're further
utilizing urban areas where there are
stacks of garden spaces check out this
image above the orange line in Boston
let's try to spot the Beehive it's there
it's on the rooftop right on the corner
there and it's been there for a couple
of years now the way that urban beach
beeping currently operates is that the
beehives are quite hidden and it's not
because they need to be it's just
because people are uncomfortable with
the idea and that's why I want you today
to try to think about this think about
the benefits of bees in cities and why
they really are a terrific thing let me
give you a brief rundown on how
pollination works so we know flowers we
know fruits and vegetables even some
alfalfa and hay that the livestock for
the meats that we eat rely on
pollinators but you've got male and
female parts to a plant here and
basically pollinators are attracted to
plants for their nectar and in the
process a bee will visit some flowers
and pick up some pollen or that male
kind of sperm counterpart along the way
and then travel to different flowers and
eventually an apple in this case will be
produced you can see the orientation the
stem is down the blossom end has fallen
off by the time we eat it but that's a
basic overview of how pollination works
and let's think about urban living not
today and not in the past but what about
in a hundred years what's it gonna look
like we have huge grand challenges these
days of habitat loss where we have more
and more people billions of people and a
hundred years god knows how many people
and how little space there will be to
fit all of them so we need to change the
way that we see cities and looking at
this picture on the left of New York
City today you can see how gray and
brown it is we have route our paper on
the rooftops that bounces heat back into
the atmosphere contributing to global
global climate change no doubt what
about in a hundred years if we have
green rooftops everywhere in gardening
and we create our own crops right in the
cities we save on the costs of
transportation we save on a healthier
diet and we also educate and create new
jobs locally we need bees for the future
of our cities and urban living here's
some data that we collected through our
company with best bees where we deliver
install and manage honeybee hives for
anybody who wants them in the city and
the countryside and we introduce
honeybees and the idea of beekeeping in
your own backyard a rooftop or fire
escape for even that matter
and see how simple it is and how
possible it is there's a
counterintuitive trend that we noticed
in these numbers so let's look at the
first metric here overwintering survival
now this has been a huge problem for
many years basically since the late
1980s when the varroa mite came and
brought many different viruses bacterial
and fungal diseases with it
overwintering success is hard and that's
when most of the colonies are lost and
we found that in the cities bees are
surviving better than they are in the
country a bit counterintuitive right we
think Oh bees countryside agriculture
but that's not what the bees are showing
the bees like it in the city furthermore
they also produce more honey the urban
honey is delicious the bees in Boston on
the rooftop of the seaport Hotel where
we have hundreds of thousands of bees
flying overhead right now that I'm sure
none of you noticed when we walked by
are going to all of the local community
gardens and making delicious healthy
honey that just tastes like the flowers
in our city so the yield for urban hives
in terms of honey production is higher
as well as the overwintering survival
compared to rural areas again a bit
counterintuitive and looking back
historically at the timeline of honeybee
health we can go back to the Year 950
and see that there was also a great
mortality of bees in Ireland so the
problems of bees today isn't necessarily
something new it has been happening all
since over a thousand years ago but what
we don't really notice are these
problems and cities so one thing I want
to encourage you to think about is the
idea of what an urban island is you
think in the city maybe the temperatures
warmer why are bees doing better in the
city this is a big question now to help
us understand why they should be in the
city perhaps there's more pollen in the
city with the trains coming in to urban
hubs they can carry pollen with them
very light pollen and it's just a big
supermarket in the city a lot of linden
trees live along the railroad tracks
perhaps they're fewer pesticides in the
cities than there are in urban areas
perhaps there are the things that we're
just not thinking about yet but that's
one idea to think about urban island
and colony collapse disorder is not the
only thing affecting honey bees honey
bees are dying and it's a huge huge
grand challenge of our time what you can
see up here is a map of the world and
we're tracking the spread of this varroa
mite now the varroa mite is what changed
the game in beekeeping and you can see
at the top right the years are changing
we're coming up to modern times and you
can see the spread of the varroa mite
from the early 1900s through now it's
1968 and we're pretty much covering Asia
1971 we saw it spread to Europe and
South America and then when we get to
the 1980s and specifically in 1987 the
varroa mite finally came to North
America into the United States and that
is when the game changed for honeybees
in the United States many of us will
remember our childhood growing up maybe
you got stung by a bee saw bees and
flowers think of the kids today their
childhoods a bit different they don't
experience this the bees just aren't
around anymore so we need bees and
they're disappearing and it's a big
problem what can we do here so what I do
is honeybee research I got my PhD
studying honeybee health
I started in 2005 studying honeybees in
2006 honeybees started disappearing so
suddenly like this little nerd kid going
to school working with bugs became very
relevant in the world
it just was serendipitously and it
worked out that way so my research
focuses on ways to make these healthier
I don't research what's killing the bees
per se I'm not one of the many
researchers around the world who's
looking at the effects of pesticides or
diseases or habitat loss and poor
nutrition on bees I'm a step beyond that
we're looking at ways to make these
healthier through vaccines through
yogurt like probiotics and other types
of therapies in ways that can be fed
orally to bees and this process is so
easy even a seven-year-old can do it you
just mix up some pollen sugar and water
and whatever active ingredient you want
to put in and you just give it right to
the bees no chemicals involved just
immune boosters humans think about our
own health in a prospective way we
exercise we eat
healthy we take vitamins why don't we
think about honeybees in that same type
of way bring them to areas where they're
thriving and try to make them healthier
before they get sick I spent many years
in grad school trying to poke bees and
do vaccines with the needles like years
years at the bench oh my gosh it's 3:00
a.m. and I'm still pricking bees and
then one day I said why don't we just do
an oral vaccine it's like oh so that's
that's what we do I'd love to share with
you some images of urban bee hives
because they can be anything I mean
really open your mind with this you can
paint a hive to match your home you can
hide a hive inside your home these are
three hives on the rooftop of the
Fairmont Copley Plaza Hotel and they're
beautiful here it means we matched the
new color of the inside of their rooms
to do some type of a stained wood with
blue for their sheets and these bees are
terrific and they also will use herbs
that are growing in the garden that's
what the chef's go to to use for their
cooking and the honey they do live
events they'll use that honey at their
bars honey is a great nutritional
substitute for regular sugar because
there are different types of sugars in
there we also have a classroom hives
project where this is a non-profit
venture we're spreading the word around
the world for how honeybee hives can be
taken into the classroom or into the
museum setting behind glass and used as
an educational tool this hive that you
see here has been in Fenway high school
for many years now the bees fly right
into the out park of right into the
outfield of Fenway Park nobody notices
it if you're not a flower these bees do
not care about you they don't they don't
vest excuse me flying around so there
are a lot of different things to learn
about bees we work with Italian bees and
they're very docile they're good honey
producers they're not an aggressive type
of bee so that's something to learn
about their different kinds and students
in this geometry classroom have learned
how that hexagonal shape has evolved in
nature why don't bees make a square
pattern in the in the wax why don't they
do a triangle and the teacher they're
Benedetta manning just won an
outstanding Teacher of the Year
ward from the Bostic public school
system for her work with honeybees in
the classroom it's terrific some other
images here and telling a part of the
story that really made me burn
beekeeping terrific is in New York City
beekeeping was illegal until 2010 that's
a big problem because what's gonna
pollinate all of the gardens and the
produce locally hands
I mean locally in Boston there is a
terrific company called green city
growers and they are going and
pollinating our squash crops by hand
with q-tips and if they miss that
three-day window there's no fruit their
clients aren't happy and that people go
hungry so this is important we have also
some images of honey from Brooklyn now
this was a mystery in the New York Times
where the honey was very red and the New
York State forensics department came in
and they actually did some science to
match the red dye with that found in a
maraschino cherry Factory down the
street so you can tailor your honey to
taste however you want by planting
bee-friendly flowers Paris has been a
terrific model for urban beekeeping
they've had hives on the rooftop of
their Opera House for many years now and
that's what really got people started
thinking wow we can do this and we
should do this also in London and in
Europe across the board they're very
advanced in their use of green rooftops
and integrating beehives
and I'll show you an ending note here I
would like to encourage you to open your
mind what can you do to save the bees or
to help them or to think of sustainable
cities in the future will really just
change your perspective try to
understand that these are very important
that bee isn't going to sting you if you
see it the bee dies honeybees die when
they sting so they don't want to do it
either it's nothing to panic about
they're all over the city you could even
get your own hive if you want there are
great resources available and they're
even companies that will help get you
set up and mentor you and it's important
for our educational system in the world
for students to learn about agriculture
worldwide such as this little girl who
again is not even getting stung thank
you